Soon after the Governing Body released
the revised English edition
of the New World Translation,
they decided to revise the Spanish edition.
They wanted it to be a modern,
understandable translation
for the entire Spanish-speaking world.
Spanish is the mother tongue
of around 480 million people.
And it is also
the most widely spoken language
among Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This translation project
would be a unique challenge.
It eventually took
four and a half years to complete.
Why did it take so long?
Apart from the translation process itself,
the work was complicated
by the wide geographic range
of these Hispanic countries
and their different cultures.
This diversity meant
that in different countries
the same Spanish word
could mean different things.
In other cases,
the word may be unknown
in certain areas
or even sound objectionable to some.
To overcome these difficulties,
the translators used 100 outside readers
from many different countries
to review the translated text progressively.
These readers were of different ages,
cultures, and backgrounds.
These outside readers regularly received
chapters of the Bible electronically,
and then they introduced
their suggested revisions.
The translation teams
took note of all their recommendations,
and in some cases,
they also sent them specific inquiries.
Every verse was checked
by 130 different people.
Naturally, all of this took time.
The work was finished in the spring of 2019.
But then another challenge arose.
We needed to print millions of Bibles
to satisfy the demand
of the Spanish-speaking field.
This was a huge job
for our printing presses
in the United States and Japan.
Despite working night and day,
the task would take a long time.
And naturally, everyone wanted
to have the Bible right away.
Right at the Madrid international convention,
the Governing Body decided to release
the Bible in digital format.
This was several months
before all the Bibles could be printed.
The highlight
of the Friday morning convention program
was when Brother Lösch
presented the newly revised Bible.
But there was another surprise!
Since at the convention
most brothers and sisters
had their phones and tablets with them,
they were able to immediately
download the revised Bible.
How was that possible?
Over 500 portable Wi-Fi devices
were distributed
among each of the 11 convention venues
in Spain that were
tied in with the Madrid stadium.
During the lunch break on Friday,
practically everyone
in attendance could download
the revised Spanish edition
of the New World Translation.
More than 1,200 volunteers were trained
to give technical support
to those who needed it.
In this way, the brothers started
to use the revised translation
right away during the afternoon program.
We laughed and cried with joy.
We knew it was a gift from Jehovah,
which he was giving us at that moment.
And also, we felt so happy
because we’d been waiting a long time for it.
What I like most about this revision
is that it’s very easy to understand.
Sometimes I think,
‘But was this what we had before?’
It seems that it reaches
my heart much quicker.
As you use it,
you realize that many scriptures
have been adjusted
and that the faithful slave
has worked very hard
to make it easier to understand.
Without a doubt, this revised edition
of the New World Translation
is a wonderful gift
for all our Spanish-speaking brothers.
The Word of God has power,
and this will be a powerful tool
to help many people get to know Jehovah.